Title: SENG 330 Problem Statements

# Problem Statement A: “Who put the driver’s seat back like that?”A car-sharing company is looking to construct a software system in support of their daily operations. Customers “time-share” a car – that is, they pay a specific yearly fee, and that fee gives them access to a car for a maximum number of hours per year. That time may be used all at once, or it may be used in one-hour increments. There are various models of vehicles from sub-compacts up to small trucks. Vehicle depots are located around the city, and users of the service may pick up and drop off a vehicle at the most convenient depot. Individual vehicles must be maintained periodically which keeps them out of service for a short period. Once they have paid their fee, customers will want to both make their own bookings, along with checking their future and past bookings.

# Problem Statement B: The Iceman Cometh.You are head-consultant on a team developing a rink-booking system. The arena complex for which this application is needed has several rinks, not all of them necessarily used for hockey (i.e., they could be used for figure skating, for group skating, etc.). Community groups or pick-up hockey clubs can use the system to both book rink time and also find out what they have already booked. Groups are billed on a monthly basis and groups must first apply to the arena before they are allowed to complete their first booking. Rink maintenance is ongoing, and when staff is working on such a rink, it is unavailable to all users – arena managers must be able at a glance to see the availability or unavailability of rinks for any period of time. 
# Problem Statement C: Food, Glorious Food.Your best friend from high-school is a mid-sized food caterer, and they have asked you to help them write some software that will help them manage all the detail faced by such a business. The company has about a dozen full time employees, and usually hires waitering staff from various temp agencies when they are needed. Event planning, food procurement, food preparation, event setup, employee scheduling and menu preparation are all tasks that the system should help support. As labour is a relatively fixed charge, great savings can be obtained by ordering food in large quantities, but spoilage reduces profits. An inventory of plates, cutlery, glassware, linen, candles and cats is also kept by the company.