# A Plethora of Bookkeeping
- contact info
- who ami 
- Slack/Github
- TAs
- key dates
- assignments
- lab test format
- assignments and plagiarism checking. 0 on the assignment if caught. 


## Behavior expectations

Harassment and discrimination are not tolerated. 

* Lectures complement the course material with demonstrations, examples, discussions, and class activities: they do not replace individual reading and practice.
* The reading should be done in advance to be able to follow the lecture. For example, I will not use the class time to read basic definitions of terms and go over the details of notation, because this is both boring and ineffective. However, coming to the lectures without having gone over the reading will be confusing, because terms will seem to come out of nowhere. Please do the reading in advance, and everything will be fine.
* Although attendance is not monitored, I strongly recommend attending lectures. Lectures will feature walk-throughs of design and implementation tasks that will help you understand the reasoning behind certain design decisions as the decisions are being made. 
* If you decide to attend lectures, you are asked to refrain from using your computing devices in a distracting or disruptive manner. This includes watching videos, texting friends, playing games, etc.
* The lectures are not recorded. No audio or video recording of any kind is allowed in class, with the one exception that you can take pictures of the projection screen (only) if you can do so in a non-disruptive manner. Note, however, that practically all lecture material will be available on-line.
* I am prepared to accommodate individual circumstances and problems (medical, personal) as needed, but I will need you to proactively, before the marks have been distributed, let me know what the problem is and what accommodation you seek.

# Software Development At Uvic
110/115, 265 -> 350, 330, ... magic ... Google.

# Software Problems

Turn to your neighbour. Find one well known software disaster. Followup: how does that compare to non-software engineering projects? 

# What is Design

> In its basic form, software design concerns determining the abstraction structure of the intended software. However, the abstraction structures in software design tend to be deeper than those in other disciplines, whether an expressive domain such as dance, or an engineering domain such as electronics. The problem is that the behavior of the code must be designed as much, if not more so, than the structure of the code in terms of its overall components and connectors, or classes and associations. As a result, the final design of a program is its source code, as even just minor variations in the code can radically alter its behavior. Because of this, the distinction between design and manufacture is blurred, make software design a highly interwoven process, with design and implementation in a continuous and close relationship - van der Hoek and Petre 2014

Take one of these principles from the book ["Software Design Decoded"](https://softwaredesigndecoded.wordpress.com/) and report back to the class on what it means to you, at this point in your career. 

1. Experts prefer solutions that they know work. p13
2. Experts move among levels of abstraction p47
3. Experts make tradeoffs p34
4. Experts use notations as lenses, rather than straitjackets p21
5. Experts design throughout the creation of the software p22

# Exercises
Your turn. Please complete the [self-assessment](../assessment.md) and [EX1](../exercises/ex1.md) this week. 


