# Catchup
- TAs
- Slack and Github
- has everyone got Eclipse and exercises from M0 working?
- walk thru Eclipse (eclEmma, checkStyle)
- OOP history pic

# Software Process
- Waterfall vs Agile 
- Cynefin

Key is to have a process, follow it, and reflect on the results. 

# Encapsulation
Picture of conk
What are some reasons to practice "information hiding"
The Design Space picture
- A class is two things: implementation and interface

# Types and Classes
Java has 8 primitive types: int, boolean, double, float, byte, char, long, short

What distinguishes a type in Java? In OO? A type is a set of externally visible characteristics (public). 

Is Java strongly or weakly typed? 
- what is the benefit of strongly typed? the disadvantage?

# Abstractions
- what are common abstractions? 
- goals for abstractions:
	- **clearly map to concepts in the problem domain (to facilitate program understanding)**
	- **be well-encapsulated (see above)**

# Sep 11
- waitlist details
- Gradle. Assignment 1. Github usernames.
- Eclipse and Gradle. Eclipse and branches/tags.
- recap abstraction
- why do we care: control of the complexity of a system. isolate distinct computations. Divide and conquer. 
- what's an example of a programming idiom that violates abstraction? (Goto and globals)

# Problem abstraction
What are some important attributes of a Bookstore inventory system?
	- Hardcover
	- paperback
	- formats
	- fiction/non-fiction
- Nouns and verbs in object brainstorming
- Design choices in even simple object modeling
- Aside: design problems are the fun parts of software. Here you apply what you know and problem solve. 

# Playing Cards and Solitaire
- design problem: how can we represent a playing card?
	- "the 10 of Hearts"
	- for each Java example, "what is the abstraction"
	- Card1: neither encapsulated, nor good abstraction
	- **a bad idea to try to shoehorn domain concepts into default types like integer or string**
	- Card2: slightly better, because we cannot directly change/mutate the value 
	- Card3: information hiding. Also uses the notion of suits and ranks to capture the problem space.
	- Card4: the same, but now with a different implementation (hidden).
	- Card5: uses Enumerated Types

# Encapsulation principles. (So why do we care about these things? )
* Make all fields private.
* Do not automatically supply a class with a "getter" (a.k.a. "accessor") and "setter" (a.k.a. "mutator") method for every field.
* Try to avoid defining methods that both change ("mutate") the state of an object and return ("access") a value.
* Define your instance variables as final whenever possible.
* Make your classes immutable whenever possible. 
* Ensure your accessor methods do not return a reference to a mutable instance variable.   

# Scope
- Classes and instances (objects)
- References and mutability
- Class, instance/object, local scope
- **always define variables in the tightest scope possible.**

There is no door: If a variable is in the global scope, it escapes by default because it is not contained. This is somewhat of a degenerate case.
The front door is open: If an accessor method returns a reference to an instance variable in the object scope, the reference escapes the object scope. One solution here is to copy the object before returning it.
The door was not closed: If an instance variable is assigned a value obtained from a parameter, the caller of the method retains a reference to the object, which means the value is not properly captured by the object scope. One solution here is to copy the object before assigning it.
The back door is open: If a reference to an instance variable is stored within an object that can be referenced from outside the object scope, then the reference escapes the object scope. One solution here is to copy the object before storing it in the provided data structure, but often this kind of convoluted design can be improved to avoid the problem in the first place.