# Catchup
- new travis file
- new tests
- schedule
- lab help
- 

# Interfaces and Implementation

- interface = accessible methods (scoping)
- class vs object distinction (more to come)
    + what happens when the code is running?
    + Java debugging
- interface vs class distinction. In Python and in Java. Multiple inheritance.
- Duck Typing 
    + "I don't care what the object is, I need to do X with it"
- invoke vs inspect
    + Inspect frowned upon in Java world - but can do it via reflection
    + Inspect more important in dynamically typed languages (Python, Ruby, JS)
    + In Python, anything can be inspected
    + Python is strongly typed (everything has one) but dynamically typed
    + This is a bit ad-hoc. Downsides include (?) readability, access control, API stability

     x = [3,4,5]
     type(x)
     x.__getitem__(1)
     x[1]
     isinstance(x,list)
     dir(my_list)

- decouple interface and implementation

# Polymorphism
- "Many shapes"
- why? 
- notion of base class
- Icon example
- explain polymorphism to your neighbour. COme up with one concrete example of polymorphism.
- gives us **loose coupling** and **extensibility**
- **it is possible to assign a value to a variable if the value is of the same type or a subtype of the type of the variable.**
- types of Lists
- type parameters (lecture 1 end)

# Lecture 2 announcements
- the assignment is deliberately iterative
- TDD: first write the tests (me/a bit you), then write code to pass the tests
- Tutorial session Friday at 1:30pm
- feedback session

# Exercise
**Loose coupling**/**Extensibility** 
- shuffle vs sort - sort needs help
- collections type hierarchy
- explain Polymorphism to your neighbor. Create an example, and list an advantage.

(second lecture end)

# Notes Friday
- USRA - 5k, 4 months, B+ average, Canadian citizen or PR, start Jan, dedadline Nov 7
- schedule next week
- feedback summary

# Class diagrams
- static view
- All models are abstractions. Not everything needs to be in the model.

# Comparator 
We might want different ways to compare things. `Comparable` allows us to indicate a type can be compared. But `Comparator` is about how we compare things. For cards, we could do it by rank or by suit. We can use the `sort(collection, comparator)` interface for this. 

- Comparator as top-level class - no private access
- Comparator as nested class - bit more verbose, harder to read perhaps
- Comparator as anonymous class - ok if comparator does not hold any state, and is only referred to once
- Comparator as lambda (Card.java) - function object, no state, but outside of Deck'
- factory method - verbose, but inside Card. No logic exposed to clients.

Write the Car Comparators. Add a byBreakingDistance comparator as lambda.
`fleet.sort(new ByAccelComparator());
        System.out.println(fleet);
        fleet.sort( (car1, car2) -> car1.getBrakingDistance() - car2.getBrakingDistance());
        System.out.println(fleet);`

# Design Patterns
1. Name
2. Problem/Context
3. Solution (often UML class diagram)
4. Consequences

# Iterator
An interface that expects a `hasNext()` and `next()` method. 
Implementing `Iterable` indicates this set of things can be iterated over. How you find the next thing, determine emptiness etc is implementation dependent. 

# Strategy pattern
- Strategy is just like the Comparator we talked about.
- Basic idea is to switch algorithms for some problem. Otherwise just polymorphism
- Other types of strategies?
- Design questions:
    + Stateful?
    + Return types and side effects 
    + 

# ISP
- cannot depend or couple too tightly
- similar to concept of "Single Responsibility"
- Design question is "do I need to depend on *everything* in this interface"
- Refactoring menu in Eclipse.
# Refs
1. https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3119/ 