## M2

## Learning Objectives

- S/w is about abstraction
- Introduce programming in OO Java and design in the small
- Encapsulation allows us to bury the details and only expose the interface. Key concept. 
- How should we represent a hockey/soccer league? What are the key abstractions?

### Videos

- 2-1 Types and classes
  - Let's say we define a player as "player #11" being Sidney Crosby. Assume for now that the details on Crosby are not important, or we have some mapping structure to define that. 
    - Three problems: 1) not similar to the domain (int not a player) 2) int might need to change 3) easy to screw up the int
- 2-2 Better: 
  - Visibility
    - 1) use private and accessors; 
    - Narrowest possible scope
  - Enumerated types
  - Enums
- 2-3 Immutability - Immutability and internals
  - Return a copy
  - Escaping references (code)
    - Team - getting at a Player. 
- 2-4 How to create an Object Diagram in JetUML (10mins)
  - motivate the problem
  - open JetUML
  - show how it works (need a cursor highlighter)
  - Explain Object model with debugger.
- 2-5 Design by contract
  - addPlayer 
  - Pre/post conditions - why? 
    - When you write the java public visibility keyword, you are promising something to external callers - any program that can instantiate an object of that type. This might be other objects in the same package, in the same namespace, or even totally unknown classes, in the case of library code (e.g., the Java SDK classes like `Object` or `ArrayList`)
    - Fantasy Hockey and multiple addPlayer calls.
  - Becomes more important as systems are spread across companies and people

### Discussion/Chat questions

#### Day 1:

* Walk thru IntelliJ and Gradle.

* What is a "good design" and When does design matter? (Have Alvi capture notes from discussion)

* Read design quote:

> In its basic form, software design concerns determining the abstraction structure of the intended software. However, the abstraction structures in software design tend to be deeper than those in other disciplines, whether an expressive domain such as dance, or an engineering domain such as electronics. The problem is that the behavior of the code must be designed as much, if not more so, than the structure of the code in terms of its overall components and connectors, or classes and associations. As a result, the final design of a program is its source code, as even just minor variations in the code can radically alter its behavior. Because of this, the distinction between design and manufacture is blurred, make software design a highly interwoven process, with design and implementation in a continuous and close relationship - van der Hoek and Petre 2014

- Question: The following are principles from the book -  ["Software Design Decoded"](https://softwaredesigndecoded.wordpress.com/)  - the quote comes from: (read quote and explain)

- 1. Experts prefer solutions that they know work. p13
  2. Experts move among levels of abstraction p47
  3. Experts make tradeoffs p34
  4. Experts use notations as lenses, rather than straitjackets p21
  5. Experts design throughout the creation of the software p22

  For each principle, give a thumbsup/smiley if you have personally used or experienced that principle in action (e.g on co-op, watching a teammate, etc). Note it does not need to be software related.

#### Day 2:

ADR walkthru - [experience report ](https://www.agilealliance.org/resources/experience-reports/distribute-design-authority-with-architecture-decision-records/)

What is "closing the back door"

Why did Tony Hoare call null pointers his billion dollar mistake?  [(Video)](https://www.infoq.com/presentations/Null-References-The-Billion-Dollar-Mistake-Tony-Hoare/)

#### Day 3: 

Meet your team/1-1 sessions. 