# George

     I mostly talked about Object Oriented and for what type of applications it works really well. I used computer simulation games like StarCraft and Civilization as examples. I talked about the difference between identity and equality as well as a bit about uniqueness. Also discussed dynamic vs static views of software. 

# Static and dynamic views
1. Emphasize duality of static and dynamic views of software (software class diagrams and object diagrams). It may help here if you have an IDE to show how the runtime JVM looks. One way to do this is to set a breakpoint in Eclipse/IntelliJ to show the snapshot of objects.
2. What happens when objects "execute". The imperative style of Python etc is more straightforward. Walk thru a scenario starting with a `main()` and how it all gets put together - e.g. the JavaFX class for the Solitaire app: https://github.com/prmr/Solitaire/blob/master/src/ca/mcgill/cs/stg/solitaire/gui/Solitaire.java

# State and its importance
- concrete state - the object at runtime
- abstract state - some abstraction of the potential state space, example being "positive account balance". Importance of selecting abstract states to help with concrete implementation. 

# Object identity
- identity - typically the memory location on the heap. Use the sample images from the debugger and Object diagram: https://github.com/prmr/SoftwareDesign/raw/master/modules/figures/m03-debugger.png 
- Java use reference objects, so two objects are equal if the references point to the same id. Two Aces are not equal since they must be different memory addresses.
- We still want a way to say two Ace of Clubs are "the same card", thus we need to override the Object base class methods `equals()` and `hashcode()`. 
- Default for `Object` is that equals and identity are the same. 
- Walk through the `equals()` code in the module for Card.
- Note that we also need to create a hashcode. Ask the students what a good way to do this is (some combination of Rank + Suit). 
- Unique: ask why we would want things unique. The text explains that we should insist our design makes having 2 identical cards impossible (no cheating!). UNiqueness is hard to guarantee but Flyweight and Singleton (covered later) attempt it.
- Difference is between immutable and unique. In many cases they will be similar, but we may have a unique Car (say) that can still be changed - for example, have an engine added.

# Closures
The notion of anonymous classes/functions (lambdas). They have a strange scope that amounts to copying the current state into a new object. 

- we like anonymous classes because (for small enough model problems) they prevent clutter and add to encapsulation. However, how does it work? 
- the closure created by copying references still allows for two objects to modify a third (see diagram). This is a good design tradeoff discussion, as we want to allow for the convenience of anonymous classes accessing the parent fields, without cluttering the namespace.
- closure and generator in Python
- "This value in the enclosing scope is remembered even when the variable goes out of scope or the function itself is removed from the current namespace."
- The key takeaway here is the difference between two objects which are logically equivalent, and the result of `Object.equals()`, which unmodified is simply comparing memory locations. 

# State Diagrams
Exercise: capture the state of a system simple enough to manage cruise control. Here is a [detailed example.](http://www.dcs.ed.ac.uk/teaching/cs1/CS1/Ah/Notes/CaseStudyCruiseControl.pdf)

Key points: states reflect the world/system at a point in time and so are probably nouns. Transitions from state to state are the verbs. This is subtle; we might represent a transition as a state, if it has domain importance (a question of the level of abstraction). Consider checking a PIN in an ATM. If this happens quickly, or is handled elsewhere, we might collapse that into a transition.
Keep in mind the distinction between states of the world/problem being modeled, and state of the system capturing that world. 

# Controlling object creation

## Flyweight pattern
- we don't always want new objects. For invariant state immutable, **value objects** that hold the invariant are much more efficient than hundreds or thousands of objects.
At some point the Flyweight factory (method/class) has to see if there is already an object with this property (using our equals/identity discussion above). That check is different depending on what the simple state is. 

## Singleton pattern
- the important thing is to prevent new instances of a given class (as opposed to unique instances). Compare the concept "five of hearts, six of hearts" (unique Cards) to "LimitedResourceController" (a single access point to some resource).

See GameModel.java in v0.3 of Solitaire app.

