Notes: 
- midterm marks should be available 5pm today... appeals will take place week after Reading Break
- assignment 2 is now due Mar 6, released during reading break
- assignment 1 marks will be back Monday
- I have renumbered the modules in my notes so they should align with chapter numbers.


I assume a basic level of unit testing knowledge - how to use Junit, different assertions - but see the text and exercises if you are unfamiliar.

# Testing
- why do we care?
- types of testing: unit, integration, regression, performance, fuzz, exploratory, UI, smoke, acceptance. We talked about the reasons why we care about these. Quality tests.
- some testing is manual; ideally as much as possible is *automated*.
- TDD:
    + rule 1: no new code until a test fails
    + rule 2: eliminate duplication
    + forces you to actually write tests
    + limit the implementation to whatever makes test pass 
    + truly a "test" focus, not a write code focus
    + must be automated
    + design is necessarily "testable" i.e. likely loosely coupled
    + forces us to think about the business objectives in concrete terms

The key takeaway here is that TDD is a conceptual shift. 

## TDD Rules:
- pick the smallest behaviour from the domain space
- **red**: write the test that describes it (red)
- **green**: write the minimum amount of code to make the test pass (green)
- continue to the next behaviour
- **refactor** any duplication between tests (what is refactoring)

# Exercise: 
Write a [set of TDD driven](https://github.com/TDD-Katas) tests that convert Roman numerals to decimal. 
I   1
V   5
X   10
L   50
C   100
D   500
M   1000

E.g. VII = 7, MDXX = 1520

Alg: Form decimals by adding the values *unless* a smaller number precedes a bigger one, in which case the smaller is subtracted from the larger (XL = 40). 

What are the edge cases? How many tests would we need to each edge case? Eventually we will discuss formalizing this analysis. 

# Rules
- Numerals can be concatenated to form a larger numeral (“XX” + “II” = “XXII”)
- If a lesser numeral is put before a bigger it means subtraction of the lesser from the bigger (- “IV” means four, “CM” means nine hundred)
- If the numeral is I, X or C you can’t have more than three (“II” + “II” = “IV”)
- If the numeral is V, L or D you can’t have more than one (“D” + “D” = “M”)


## Design Questions
- as you write tests, questions will become clear:
    - store as string or as another type? 
    - figure out the algorithm first, or as you test?
    - how to read the tokens in the string?
    - when to refactor common functionality? Eg. when do we really **need** the subtraction part?
    - resist the temptation to gold plate
    - choosing tests is hard, because it forces you to think about the design

# Programming as Rock Climbing
- climbing video - protection - fall
- Kent Beck and [Limbo Coding](https://medium.com/@kentbeck_7670/limbo-on-the-cheap-e4cfae840330), [``test && commit || revert``](https://medium.com/@kentbeck_7670/test-commit-revert-870bbd756864)
- notion of little increments with fewer conflicts
- how do we turn little increments into big ideas?

Now we turn to some of the challenges in writing unit tests for OO. These are access to private members, access to exceptions and assertions, and missing functionality. 

# Reflection/MetaProgramming
Sometimes it is necessary to test private methods of a class - they are units. But this is not possible in conventional ways, for good reason
- modify the visibility to let it be tested?
- don't test it? 
- show the InstructorTest class
- Java [ClassLoading mechanism](https://www.quora.com/How-does-ClassLoader-work-in-Java-simple-words) - leveraged for reflection
- [Java.Lang.Class](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Class.html) is the basis for reflection.
- walk thru the example from the notes

# Testing Exceptions
- Add the exception to the Junit annotation 

# Testing with Stubs/Mocks
Difference between Mockito and roll your own
[Mockito example](http://www.vogella.com/tutorials/Mockito/article.html)
Possible issues:
- Defining interface for another class
- Drift between mock and reality over time 

Delta between design first vs tdd first - choose how much of each to do based on the complexity of the problem. At the simplest case, you can just start testing. As the problem grows more complex, you might need a rough idea of what the design can be. And eventually you hit a tipping point where no one knows anything, and code probes/spikes to test problem response is necessary. 

# What to Test/CFGs
- we need to sort out what inputs to throw at the problem. In the Roman Numeral example, this was tractable manually - from 1-3000. Conceivably we could store all of those in memory (and in dynamic programming this is in fact the way to go). 
- functional black box vs structural white box testing
- whitebox testing is about ensuring that all paths in the code are exercised by the test
    + show the InstructorTest and how it reports on the paths
    + show coverage in IntelliJ and Eclipse
- The EvenSum example
    + a test case is a complete path through the CFG
- Statement coverage = all nodes visited
- Decision /Branch coverage = all edges visited
- Condition coverage = every condition has taken on all outcomes at least once (e.g. T/F)
- Path coverage = every path has been traversed. Loops have paths = number of times through the loop
- Tools like Emma only provide  instruction, line (a proxy for statement), and branch metrics. For path coverage we must turn to formal verification to prove conditions cannot happen. 

# New Advances in Testing
- talked about [FB Sapienz effort](https://code.fb.com/developer-tools/finding-and-fixing-software-bugs-automatically-with-sapfix-and-sapienz/) 
    + how do we test for millions of possible interactions?
    + Consider a bug that happens once in every 1 million interactions. When you have 100 million users, that bug might happen 100 times a day. 
    + Flaky tests: assume all tests are flaky at scale.
    + build model of system under test.
    + build model of space of possible tests
    + search space to find useful tests.
    + Sapienz automatically runs these tests millions of times a day
    + almost all are searches for null pointer exceptions
