Team formation
Feedback on Assignment 3 spec
Early bug reporting - gradle etc.

# Inheritance in Java
Basic mechanics - implements vs extends
Why it is good - remove duplicate code (reuse) AND / OR improve modelling (the classification hierarchy). [This article](https://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/composition-vs-inheritance-how-choose) calls this inheritance of **semantics** vs inheritance of **mechanics**.

```
class Stack extends ArrayList {
    public void push(Object value) { … }
    public Object pop() { … }
}
```
(lecture 2)
## Liskov Substitution Principle
You can use the subtype anywhere you can use the supertype. A helpful way to think whether inheritance is useful or whether composition is better. 

## “**Open-Closed Principle**”
open for extension, closed for modification. This makes classes more maintainable. We can extend the class if we need to add new behavior, but we don't want to change the super class to do so. This is a variant of encapsulation: we program to the type, and so all clients are unaware of there being "new" classes. 

- Camera, Device, NightVisionCamera
- should NightVisionCamera extend Camera? Or Device? 

## Runtime/Compile time types
- what is the example from assignment 2 of this? 
- how could we refactor `Hub` to improve on the `register(Client)` and `register(Device)` methods?

`Employee Alice = new Manager()`

at runtime, we create a Manager instance. The reference `alice` has compile time type `Employee`. Show you cannot call Manager functions on `alice` (without a explicit cast) but that the overridden `Manager` methods will be called. 

Camera gets the abstract fields of Device, as long as they are protected or public.

Final class - cannot be extended

Super()

[Default methods](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/defaultmethods.html) vs abstract methods in interfaces (example: `Mediator`)

Abstract classes. Some classes make no sense to "create" via instantiation. However, we might want to provide skeleton implementations with them. The Template Method pattern later will show how this can work. 

Interface/Abstract class pattern in Collections

Dynamic dispatch and multiple dispatch
- run-time resolution of what method ‘accepts’ the message 
- the most specific runtime type will handle the message
- 

# CRC cards exercise
Introduce CRC cards. Class-Responsibility-Collaborators. This is from Beck and Cunningham, “A Laboratory for Object Oriented Thinking”, OOPSLA 1989.

1. Class: the name of the class/object which we assign a role. Remember, OO is about communication between objects to get work done.
2. Responsibilities - problems to be solved. Aggregation of methods/messages.
3. Collaborators - objects sending or receiving messages to satisfy responsibilities

Use them with MVC example. We outlined the three cards.
- View - Render the Model & Transform Coordinates - Controller/Model
- Model - Maintain Problem info & Broadcast change notifications - Limited collab
- Controller - Interpret user input & Distribute control - View/Model

* Organize spatially to reflect design (groups and abstractions)
* Start with knowns, and work from there
* When a card is too crowded, move responsibilities to an unnamed card

Exercise: apply CRC cards in designing a system for a library management system. This is separate from the checkout and patron management code.

Item: book, magazine, video
Subject (Fiction/Non-Fiction)
Purchase
Purchasees (AW, Pearson)
Author
Age/Publication Date
Condition

# Template Method
Template Method is a technique to abstract “up” common algorithm patterns, allowing different subclasses to fill in the details. 

Compare with Sort in Java Collections. You implement Comparable as a way of “filling in the details” 

# Inheritance vs Interface
Prefer composition (has a) to inheritance (is-a).

Composition gives flexibility to “uncompose” things, or change the things it is composed of. Inheritance is inflexible: you can extend a type, but you MUST implement/inherit the behavior of the superclass. 
With interfaces, change behavior at runtime. 

## Inheritance caveats
- violates encapsulation: depends on implementation of superclass
- don't inherit across package boundaries or classes you / your team don't own.
- any non-`final` class can be extended (and thus dependencies introduced).

## Different views on usefulness of inheritance
The principle benefit of inheritance was claimed to be to reduce duplicate code (e.g. calculating a salary). But maybe we don’t need the basic examples we keep using in classes: Shape/Rectangle etc. The problem is duplicate code. How can we solve that problem without introducing many new classes?

## Land of the nouns

The Shape example, redone. 
