# OO survey
https://snyk.io/blog/jvm-ecosystem-report-2018-platform-application

# Inversion of Control
- demo of Lucky Number
    + design problems without observer
    + separate :
        + program elements responsible for storing state, (a database, for example, and associated objects)
        + program elements responsible for viewing state, (a View, e.g. a web page or this UI)
        + program elements responsible for changing state (the commands sent by the user)
    - Observer pattern:
        + model uninterested in observers (what they do)
        + register / deregister as needed
        + IOC and callback approach

# discussion of design flaws - [slides from 330 2017](https://github.com/SENG330/course/blob/master/lectures/ooprinciples%20copy.pdf)
+ writing vs coding
+ UW examples
+ naming

# inversion of control and dependency injection (D in SOLID)
- something else controls the program flow (often a framework)
- graphic from notes
- [Observer/Observable](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/index.html?java/util/Observable.html) interface in JDK
- Dependency Injection example  ([Guice](https://github.com/google/guice/wiki/Motivation))
    -separate behaviour from dependency resolution
    + takes a set of components (classes + interfaces) 
    + Adds a set of configuration metadata
    + Provides the metadata to an injection framework
    + Bootstraps object creation with a configured injector (courtesy Reid Holmes)
    + See [CreditCard example](https://github.com/caplin/Guice-Example.git). Note: the Yahoo API does not work anymore.
- We could write unit tests as normal. Not always possible: charging CCs.
- We could use a Factory to offload dependency management.
- But then we are exposing dependencies directly, and Factories grow in number
- DI stage 1: introduce the dependencies as constructor params
    + but now clients are responsible for managing dependencies
- DI with Guice: use the framework to bind dependencies in a separate module.
- Note: the essential complexity of managing dependencies does not go away. But, we can reduce the accidental complexity by modularizing it into a single place.

# Responsibility Driven Design
CRC cards
Single Responsibility Principle
Write simple, testable code


# Visitor Pattern

# CRC cards exercise
Introduce CRC cards. Class-Responsibility-Collaborators. This is from Beck and Cunningham, “A Laboratory for Object Oriented Thinking”, OOPSLA 1989.

1. Class: the name of the class/object which we assign a role. Remember, OO is about communication between objects to get work done.
2. Responsibilities - problems to be solved. Aggregation of methods/messages.
3. Collaborators - objects sending or receiving messages to satisfy responsibilities

Use them with MVC example. We outlined the three cards.
- View - Render the Model & Transform Coordinates - Controller/Model
- Model - Maintain Problem info & Broadcast change notifications - Limited collab
- Controller - Interpret user input & Distribute control - View/Model

* Organize spatially to reflect design (groups and abstractions)
* Start with knowns, and work from there
* When a card is too crowded, move responsibilities to an unnamed card

Exercise: apply CRC cards in designing a system for a library management system. This is separate from the checkout and patron management code.

Item: book, magazine, video
Subject (Fiction/Non-Fiction)
Purchase
Purchasees (AW, Pearson)
Author
Age/Publication Date
Condition