## M8

### Learning Objectives

* Inversion of control
* GUI concepts
* Event handling/control flow
* Model View controller and its wider applications
* Concurrent Programming concepts

### Videos

- 8-4 Observer/MVC
  - The notion of inversion of Control
  - Lucky Number demo and code walkthru
- 8-3 Visitor pattern
  - The pattern explained
  - Walkthru of Visitor to program elements and AST using Soot
- 8-1 Concurrency and java 
  - **Motivation**: concurrent programming is tricky! For one thing, humans like to think sequentially, not in parallel. For another, debugging concurrency is difficult, since multiple things can change the code.
  - Concurrency is an aspect of the problem domain—your code needs to handle multiple simultaneous (or near simultaneous) events. Parallelism, by contrast, is an aspect of the solution domain—you want to make your program run faster by processing different portions of the problem in parallel.
  - Threads, processes, services
    - https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/concurrency/procthread.html
    - Thread = shared memory space!
  - Debugger example
- 8-2 Concurrency primitives
  - Synchronized blocks
  - Deadlocks and starvation 

### Discussion/chat topics

#### Day 1

- Group discussion

#### Day 2

- Code Review exercise and feedback

- Intro to architecture design and arch patterns vs design patterns

- Concurrency OO principles:

  * always lock during updates to object fields
  * always lock access of possibly updated object fields
  * never lock invocation of methods on other objects

- Concurrency benefits in design

  - **abstraction**: separating different tasks, without worrying about when to execute them (example: download files from two different websites)
  - **responsiveness**: providing a responsive user interface, with different tasks executing independently (example: browse the slides while down- loading your email)
  -  **performance**: splitting complex tasks in multiple units, and assign each unit to a different processor (example: compute all prime numbers up to 1 billion)

- Concurrency [example](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dining_philosophers_problem).

  - N philosophers around a table (*threads*).
    
  - N chopsticks between them (*resources*).
  
  - Must use 2 nearest chopsticks to eat (critical section).
    
  - Pick up one, then the other, not both at once.
    
     **Challenge**: Design a solution that prevents deadlock and starvation. Consider what happens if each person picks up a chopstick to the left. 

* Other approaches:
  * Go, [GoRoutines](https://tour.golang.org/concurrency/1), [Channels](https://gobyexample.com/channels). Pike: **don't (let computations) communicate by sharing memory, (let them) share memory by communicating (through channels)**. 
  * [Actor model](https://www.infoworld.com/article/2077999/understanding-actor-concurrency--part-1--actors-in-erlang.html) in Erlang

Levels of reactive in Java (via https://www.slideshare.net/MiroCupak/exploring-reactive-programming-with-java)

0. Thread and Runnable (Java 1)
1. Exectuor Service, Callable, Future (Java 5)
2. ForkJoinPool (7)
3. CompletableFuture (8)
4. Flow and reactive streams (9)
5. HTTP/2 client (11)
6. Reactive Libraries (RxJava)
7. Reactive Microservices

#### Day 3

* Office hours 