# M9

## Learning Objectives

Functional concepts 
Java 8 and onward functional programming approaches
Java's functional approach compared to Scala

## Videos

- **M9-1** Functional Interfaces and lambdas
	- some functional interfaces and examples
		- FI declares a single abstract method. Abstract important.
		- Implement this FI using anonymous class.
		- Type of the FI
		- FI and Java util.function - Int
- **M9-2** Lambdas and method references
		- lambdas have been covered.
		- example of method reference
- **M9-3** Function composition, streams and event-based processing
	- Function composition is best explained by looking at streams. The idea is that since functions should have no side effects, we can chain them:
		- f(x)g(x)+h(x) as an example. 
	- A stream is a series of events. Think of a list of students in 330. That is a finite list of 62 people. But if I look at "every student who has or will have taken 330", that is an infinite list (or close to). As new students arrive in class, say next Fall, my app should still be responsive to those new events. Think about summarizing the points of every player in the NHL. The set of current players will change - some get injured, some get cut, some arrive from the minors. We shouldn't assume these things are static - that makes design much harder. If I want my app to display the current number of points per player, I need a model that can adapt to changes in the list of players. 
	- Streams "never stop" and this models the reality of events in web based systems. Amazon effectively never stops processing transactions and events. 
- **M9-4** Functions and Patterns
	- a bit of Scala in Observer
	- Observer

## Discussion/chat topics

### Day 1
- Group discussion of Ex8

### Day 2
#### [Cube Composer](https://david-peter.de/cube-composer/)
Find someone with a laptop and work through at least levels 0 and 1

- (note, a lot is derived from the [Fairbanks talk](http://www.georgefairbanks.com/blog/saturn-2017-functional-programming-invades-architecture/))

#### Function composition 

* Build software by composing small functions (cf 'pipe and filter style')
* functions as arguments `f(g(x))`

#### Pure Functions
* no side effects -> same arguments yield same results
* Reasoning about the outcome is easier

> curl http://localhost/numberAfter/5 → [always 6]
> 
> curl http://localhost/customer/5/v1 → [always v1 of customer]

vs

> curl http://localhost/customer/5 → [may be different]

#### Statelessness & Immutability
If there’s no state

* Easy to reason about
* All instances are equivalent

If things are immutable

* Easy to reason about
* Concurrent access is safe

#### Idempotence
Idempotence = get the same answer regardless of how many times you do it 

> resizeTo100px(image) vs shrinkByHalf(image)

* Often hard to guarantee something is done exactly once 
* Eg: Is the task stalled or failed?
* Go ahead and schedule it again without fear that you’ll get a duplicate result

#### Declarative (vs imperative)

* Functional programming defines what something *is*
    * ... or how it relates to other things 
    * Versus a series of operations that yield desired state
* Definition, not procedure

* Example: how much paint do I need?
    * `while(!done) { fence.paint(); }`
* Vs function parameterized by length and width
    - `paint(l=20,w=3)`

#### Java approach
Functions are **first-class program entities** (in practice, whereas before Java8 only objects were)

  * If we want to implement a way to Compare objects, Java formerly asked for a `Comparator` object, when all it really was was a function wrapped in an object (function was 2nd class).
  * Needed to add ability to pass functions to other functions  (higher-order functions)

* Three key language supports:

  * **Functional interfaces** - an interface with one abstract method	(see java.lang.Comparator). Java provides (in `java.util.function`) a number of these Types to allow for function composition. For example, a `Predicate` is a type that takes a type T and returns boolean (e.g., `isNull`).

  * **lambdas** - anonymous functions that skip the class creation baggage. Mostly for simple, side-effect free functions. E.g. 

    * ```Predicate<Card> blackCardFilter =  (Card card) -> card.getSuit().getColor() == Suit.Color.BLACK;```
    * The () wraps the parameter for the function, and the  -> returns the body of the expression. 
    * Explicitly about behavior.

  *  **method references** - a pointer to the method object itself, e.g. `cards.removeIf(Card::hasBlackSuit);`
  * Double-colon syntax


#### Day 3
* Q&A and office hours