# Interfaces and Implementation

Discuss how to think about design for other classes to use (clients) vs internal implementation

- What should a `Deck` offer? What should a `Card`? What about `Game`?

- interface:

    - Formal guarantee (contract)
    - Subtype relationships - what other 'types' might we want interchange? `drawCards` example, icons, collections
    - `Interface` can decouple the definitions from the implementation 

- BookIS example

    - We want to maintain an inventory of books, but we sell lots of things. Bad design would tightly couple the functionality of managing books and make it hard to add other items.

- class vs object distinction (more to come)
    + what happens when the code is running?
    + Java debugging
    
- interface vs class distinction. In Python and in Java. Multiple inheritance.

    - What does Python have for this concept of interface?

- Duck Typing 
  
    + "I don't care what the object is, I need to do X with it"
    
- invoke vs inspect
    + `Inspect` frowned upon in Java world - but can do it via reflection
    + `Inspect` more important in dynamically typed languages (Python, Ruby, JS)
    + In Python, anything can be inspected
    + Python is **strongly** typed (everything has one) and **dynamically** typed
    + Downsides include (?) readability, access control, API stability

    ` x = [3,4,5]
     type(x)
     x.__getitem__(1)
     x[1]
     isinstance(x,list)
     dir(my_list)`

- decouple interface and implementation

# Polymorphism
- "Many shapes"
- why? 
- notion of base class
- Icon example
- explain polymorphism to your neighbour. Come up with one concrete example of polymorphism.
- gives us **loose coupling** and **extensibility**
- **it is possible to assign a value to a variable if the value is of the same type or a subtype of the type of the variable.**
- types of Lists
- type parameters (lecture 1 end)

# Exercise
**Loose coupling**/**Extensibility** 
- shuffle vs sort - sort needs help
- collections type hierarchy
- explain Polymorphism to your neighbor. Create an example, and list an advantage.

(second lecture end)

# Class diagrams
- static view
- All models are abstractions. Not everything needs to be in the model.

# Comparator 
We might want different ways to compare things. `Comparable` allows us to indicate a type can be compared. But `Comparator` is about how we compare things. For cards, we could do it by rank or by suit. We can use the `sort(collection, comparator)` interface for this. 

- Comparator as top-level class - no private access
- Comparator as nested class - bit more verbose, harder to read perhaps
- Comparator as anonymous class - ok if comparator does not hold any state, and is only referred to once
- Comparator as lambda (Card.java) - function object, no state, but outside of Deck'
- factory method - verbose, but inside Card. No logic exposed to clients.

Write the Car Comparators. Add a byBreakingDistance comparator as lambda.
`fleet.sort(new ByAccelComparator());
        System.out.println(fleet);
        fleet.sort( (car1, car2) -> car1.getBrakingDistance() - car2.getBrakingDistance());
        System.out.println(fleet);`

# Design Patterns
1. Name
2. Problem/Context
3. Solution (often UML class diagram)
4. Consequences

# Iterator
An interface that expects a `hasNext()` and `next()` method. 
Implementing `Iterable` indicates this set of things can be iterated over. How you find the next thing, determine emptiness etc is implementation dependent. 

# Strategy pattern
- Strategy is just like the Comparator we talked about.
- Basic idea is to switch algorithms for some problem. Otherwise just polymorphism
- Other types of strategies?
- Design questions:
    + Stateful?
    + Return types and side effects 
    + 

# ISP
- cannot depend or couple too tightly
- similar to concept of "Single Responsibility"
- Design question is "do I need to depend on *everything* in this interface"
- Refactoring menu in Eclipse.
# Refs
1. https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-3119/ 