
# Inheritance in Java
Basic mechanics - implements vs extends
Why it is good - remove duplicate code (reuse) AND / OR improve modelling (the classification hierarchy). 

See the example in Fig 7.1

[This article](https://www.thoughtworks.com/insights/blog/composition-vs-inheritance-how-choose) calls this inheritance of **semantics** vs inheritance of **mechanics**.

```
class Stack extends ArrayList {
    public void push(Object value) { … }
    public Object pop() { … }
}
```
 A class is a template for creating objects. 

Compile time types vs runtime types.

Downcasting.

# What is Inherited? 

Fields: all fields are inherited, if not visible (access is a static, implementation concept).

##Liskov Substitution Principle

You can use the subtype anywhere you can use the supertype. A helpful way to think whether inheritance is useful or whether composition is better. The subtype does not restrict the super type.

## “**Open-Closed Principle**”

open for extension (inherit), closed for modification (abstract). This makes classes more maintainable. We can extend the class if we need to add new behavior, but we don't want to change the super class to do so. This is a variant of encapsulation: we program to the type, and so all clients are unaware of there being "new" classes. 

- Collections framework 

## Runtime/Compile time types
- `Employee Alice = new Manager()`

at runtime, we create a Manager instance. The reference `alice` has compile time type `Employee`. Show you cannot call Manager functions on `alice` (without a explicit cast) but that the overridden `Manager` methods will be called. 

* MemorizingDeck example

Final class - cannot be extended

Super()

[Default methods](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/IandI/defaultmethods.html) vs abstract methods in interfaces (example: `Mediator`)

* The concept of static (class level) methods and instance methods. Implicit parameter.

Abstract classes. Some classes make no sense to "create" via instantiation. However, we might want to provide skeleton implementations with them. The Template Method pattern later will show how this can work. 

Interface/Abstract class pattern in Collections. Abstraction discussion in Fig 7.10

Dynamic dispatch and multiple dispatch
- run-time resolution of what method ‘accepts’ the message 
- the most specific runtime type will handle the message

# Inheritance vs Interface

The principle benefit of inheritance was claimed to be to reduce duplicate code (e.g. calculating a salary). But maybe we don’t need the basic examples we keep using in classes: Shape/Rectangle etc. The problem is duplicate code. How can we solve that problem without introducing many new classes?

- Prefer composition (has a) to inheritance (is-a). See Fig 7.6

Composition gives flexibility to “uncompose” things, or change the things it is composed of. Inheritance is inflexible: you can extend a type, but you MUST implement/inherit the behavior of the superclass. 

With interfaces, change behavior at runtime. 

## Inheritance caveats

- violates encapsulation: depends on implementation of superclass
- don't inherit across package boundaries or classes you / your team don't own.
- any non-`final` class can be extended (and thus dependencies introduced).

# Template Method
Template Method is a technique to abstract “up” common algorithm patterns, allowing different subclasses to fill in the details. 

Compare with Sort in Java Collections. You implement Comparable as a way of “filling in the details” 

- 
