# Other approaches to OO patterns
OO models entities in the world as objects (nouns). This is/was a huge advance on procedural approaches that were common before, as it supported modeling complex information spaces. The OO approach is about sending messages between cooperating objects (where message == method invocation). You can see this [message passing](https://ci.inria.fr/pharo-contribution/job/UpdatedPharoByExample/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/book-result/UnderstandingMessage/UnderstandingMessage.html) paradigm in [Smalltalk syntax](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42498438/whats-so-special-about-message-passing-in-smalltalk): 
```
aPen go: 100 + 20
"aPen is the object receiving the message, go is the message, 100 is also a receiving object of the message + and argument 20."
```
In Smalltalk - with late binding and dynamic typing - you can send messages anywhere, and it is up to the receiver to handle it (or explain it cannot). Objective C has a similar approach. 

There are other paradigms, of course. In Javascript [objects use Prototypes](http://sporto.github.io/blog/2013/02/22/a-plain-english-guide-to-javascript-prototypes/) instead of Java's inheritance/interface approach. Instead of a `Class` that acts as templates, we just pull in existing objects as the prototype and then add new properties for them.

Other models include the [Actor model (e.g. Elixir and Erlang)](https://www.brianstorti.com/the-actor-model/) or [CSPs (Go)](http://www.minaandrawos.com/2015/12/06/concurrency-in-golang/). These paradigms are especially helpful in distributed/concurrent systems programming. 

## Functions
Another paradigm is the notion that functions (the mathematical construct) should be the core unit of computation. One of the key ideas is that functions almost never (Scala) or strictly never (i.e., "pure functional" langs like Haskell) have [side effects](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_effect_(computer_science)). Side effects are things like changing the stored value of a global variable or accepting input from the user. Side effects are non-deterministic and make distributed systems programming complex. They are also essential to getting things done, however. 

### Overview/Learning Objectives
* the nature of functional programming
* several key functional concepts 
* leveraging functional idioms for design

### Why Functional Approach
Much of FP has focused on programming language idioms e.g. lambdas, purity, typing, monads. These have an appealing mathematical formality which allows us to give precise definitions and semantics.

I'd argue the main reason for the higher rate of FP idioms in Java and Python is that FP is good for parallelism and concurrency, which are increasingly necessary at the design level.

FP is good at reductive reasoning: keeping things simple and side-effect free makes it easier to reason.

### [Cube Composer](https://david-peter.de/cube-composer/)
Find someone with a laptop and work through at least levels 0 and 1

### Review: Functional Paradigm
(note, a lot is derived from the [Fairbanks talk](http://www.georgefairbanks.com/blog/saturn-2017-functional-programming-invades-architecture/))

### Function composition 

* Build software by composing small functions (cf 'pipe and filter style')
* functions as arguments `f(g(x))`

### Pure Functions
* no side effects -> same arguments yield same results
* Reasoning about the outcome is easier

> curl http://localhost/numberAfter/5 → [always 6]
> 
> curl http://localhost/customer/5/v1 → [always v1 of customer]

vs

> curl http://localhost/customer/5 → [may be different]

### Statelessness & Immutability
If there’s no state

* Easy to reason about
* All instances are equivalent

If things are immutable

* Easy to reason about
* Concurrent access is safe

### Idempotence
Idempotence = get the same answer regardless of how many times you do it 

> resizeTo100px(image) vs shrinkByHalf(image)

* Often hard to guarantee something is done exactly once 
* Eg: Is the task stalled or failed?
* Go ahead and schedule it again without fear that you’ll get a duplicate result

### Declarative (vs imperative)

* Functional programming defines what something *is*
    * ... or how it relates to other things 
    * Versus a series of operations that yield desired state
* Definition, not procedure

* Example: how much paint do I need?
    * `while(!done) { fence.paint(); }`
* Vs function parameterized by length and width
    - `paint(l=20,w=3)`

# FP In Java

* Functions are **first-class program entities** (whereas before Java8 only objects were)

  * If we want to implement a way to Compare objects, Java formerly asked for a `Comparator` object, when all it really was was a function wrapped in an object (function was 2nd class).
  * Needed to add ability to pass functions to other functions 

* Three key language supports:

  * Functional interfaces - an interface with one abstract method	(see java.lang.Comparator). Java provides (in `java.util.function`) a number of these Types to allow for function composition. For example, a `Predicate` is a type that takes a type T and returns boolean (e.g., `isNull`).

  * lambdas - anonymous functions that skip the class creation baggage. Mostly for simple, side-effect free functions. E.g. 

    * ```Predicate<Card> blackCardFilter =  (Card card) -> card.getSuit().getColor() == Suit.Color.BLACK;```
    * The () wraps the parameter for the function, and the  -> returns the body of the expression. 
    * Explicitly about behavior.

  *  method references - a pointer to the method object itself, e.g. `cards.removeIf(Card::hasBlackSuit);`

    * Double-colon syntax

    

### FP and the GoF

* Many of the patterns in the Gang of Four Design Pattern book are idiomatic in FP. That means there is no need for a design pattern, as the language contains built-in features to handle the same design challenge.
* Let's look at [Observer](https://github.com/mariofusco/from-gof-to-lambda/blob/master/src/main/java/org/mfusco/fromgoftolambda/examples/observer/ObserverLambda.java) from the Mario Fusco presentation.
* That example shows that using a `ConcurrentHashMap` and Java8's `Consumer` interface can radically reduce the amount of code required (check out the GoF example in the same repository). 
* This makes the code easier to read (assuming our coder has a basic knowledge of Java8 and functional programming), and easier to maintain.


### FP and Design
* Streams of events can be processed using functional operators (e.g., `filter`)
* Example: Reactive Programming (not `React` the framework)

(see [Andre Staltz intro](https://gist.github.com/staltz/868e7e9bc2a7b8c1f754) )

